{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh13040\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 The link between \'93green\'94 and economic success: environmental management as the crucial trigger between environmental and economic performance - 471\
\

\b0 Abstract\
\'97\
Link between environmental and economic performance has been debated widely in literature. \
One view is that improved environmental performance mainly causes extra costs for th from and thus reduces profitability. the opposite has also been argued however; improved environmental performance wold induce cost savings and increase sales and thus improve economic performance. \
Empirical studies have not yet be conclusive. \
This paper discusses each viewpoint, and presents a theoretical framework to explain the coexistence of the conflicting views. \
It is argued that not merely the ell of environmental performance, nut mainly the kind of environmental management with which a certain level is achieved, influences the economic outcome. Paper provides implications for company management in practice. \
\
\
Main Body\
\'97\
Reasons for differences in viewpoints and results \
	Different datasets\
	Regulatory regime in a country\
	Cultural setting\
	Customer behaviour\
	Type of industry\
	Size of companies analysed\
	Time span \
	etc\
Another reason for conflicting results may be the lack of a clear theoretical framework within which to investigate the links between environmental performance and economic performance. They primarily argue that it is not the pure fact of being green but the way in which a certain level of environmental performance has been achieved that influences whether the correlation between environmental and comic perfjoamcne is positive or negative. \
	Its the way in which its achieved that\'92s important, rather than purely being green or not.\
\
The question should not be: does it pay to be green, but rather when it pays to be green.  }