{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15000\viewh13480\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Z Scores - A guide to failure prediction: Certified Public Accountant - 88\
\

\b0 Paper\
\'97\
Financial-statement analysis looks at a firm\'92s past performance to predict its future condition. Some users of ratios information have very specific concerns. \

\b Lenders
\b0  are interested in the firms ability to meet the payments over the life of the loan\

\b Auditors
\b0  are interested in judging whether financially troubled companies are likely to continue as a going concern\

\b Management 
\b0 are interested in knowing the problems they are about to face and, where appropriate taking corrective action. \
\
Statistical ratio models are usually created by academics, often with the following pattern. \

\i Identifying a sample of failing firms
\i0 \
	These would meet some predetermined criterion of failure such as bankruptcy, loan defaults. A sample of around 30 is probably needed for results to have statistical validity.\

\i Find a group of comparable firms\

\i0 	these would be similar with respect to size, industry. Only difference is these businesses are in a healthy state. \

\i Analyse differences between healthy and failing businesses.\

\i0 	Computer analysis should reveal which ratios are consistency and significantly different between the two groups. \

\i Derive a scoring system containing the significant ratios\

\i0 	Assign weights to each ratio to come to an aggregate score. \

\i Evaluate new Firms	\

\i0 	Score new firms against the database. Eventually you can track the performance of the model\'92s assessment with what actually happened in the real world. \
\

\b Altman Z-Score\

\b0 First derived using manufacturing and small firms. \
Altman found a large statistical difference across each term in the equation that enabled him to divided companies into two groups: Bankrupt and Non-Bankrupt. He was able to score each company and compare to cut-off values to determine their state. It correctly predicted 72% of brankrupties two year prior to the event, so it works int he real world. Z-score profiles for failing businesses often indicate a consistent downward trend as they approach bankruptcy.\
\

\b Cautions\

\b0 Tried and tested formula for bankruptcy prediction. It has been demonstrated as quite reliable, in a variety of context and countries. Having said this, it is not designed to be used in every situation. Before using a Z-score to make predictions, one must ensure the rim being examined is comparable to the database. The two major issues are discussed below;\

\i Privately Held Firms
\i0   
\b \
	
\b0 If a firms stock is not publicly traded, the X4 term cannot be calculated. To correct for this problem, the Z score can be re-estimated using book values of equity and different cutoff\'92s used. Put in new equation. \

\i Non-Manufacturing Firms\
	
\i0 The X5 term is believed to vary significantly by industry. It is likely to be higher for merchandising and service firms that for manufacturers, since the former are typically less capital intensive. Consequently, non-manufacturers would have significantly higher asset turnover and Z scores. The model is thus likely to under-predict certain sorts of bankruptcy. To correct of this, Altman recommends the following correction that eliminate the X5 term. Put in equation and new cutoffs
\b \
\

\b0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs52 \cf0 corporate governance code\
	Publicly traded companies
\f0\fs24 \
}