{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14200\viewh15580\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Corporate Governance and Equity Prices\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Citations: 7157 from google scholar\
Published in 2003\
Talk about before 
\i\b What Matters in Corporate Governance?\

\i0\b0 These guys came up with the 24 metric study, which is built upon by the above paper\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Abstract\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 There is no commonly held level of shareholder rights across companies, leading to a natural question of how these rights effect company performance. \
The authors here use 24 governance rules to construct a \'93Governance Index\'94, that acts as a proxy for shareholder rights.\
They consider 1500 large firms during the 1990\'92s.\
They found that firms with stronger shareholder rights had \
higher \
	firm value\
	profits\
	sales growth \
and lower\
	capital expenditures\
	amount of corporate acquisitions\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Introduction\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 They draw links between companies and republics, extremes being a democracy or a dictatorship. \
The main question they ask is: is there a relationship between shareholder rights and corporate performance\
They empirically study the link between their shareholder index and corporate performance. \'93long-run event study\'94.\
\'93Democracies\'94 earned significantly higher returns, were valued more highly and had better operating performance. \
Didn\'92t use random assignment, thus cannot make claims of causality\
\
In section 2 they detail the provisions\
Their index is a proxy for the balance of power between shareholders and managers\
For every firm they award a point for every provision that reduces shareholder rights. \
They state that it is obvious in most cases when this has occurred, ambiguous cases are discussed\
\
In section 3 they document the main empirical relationships \
Using performance-attribution time-series regressions \
They primarily find that companies in the lowest decile of their index outperform those in the higher decile by a statistically significant 8.4% per year. \
They state that in 1990 a one-point difference in the index was negatively associated with an 11.4% difference in Tobins Q \
	This seems pretty huge\
\
In section 4 they present some reasons why they might have found the above \
They are\
	weak shareholder rights caused additional costs, which could be underestimated by the market. If this occurs, a firms stock returns and operating perforate would have been worse than expected and the firms value at the beginning of the period would have been too high.\
	Managers in the 1980\'92s predicted poor performance in the 90\'92s but investors didn\'92t. In this case, managers could have put governance provisions in place to protect their jobs. this might have had real protective power, but would not have caused the poor performance. \
	the governance provisions did not cause poor performance, but rather were correlated with other characteristics that were associated with abnormal returns in the 1990\'92s. \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 The Governance Index\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 The authors give a good example of how one of the provisions could be used to either increase or decrease shareholder rights, based on the boards desires. \
Take Classified Boards for example. This describes how the terms and elections of directors can be staggered and hence be used to slow down a hostile takeover. Management could use this to lead to an increase or decrease in overall shareholder wealth, depending on how this power is handled. \
Since board turnover is more gradual, it is more difficult for a hostile company to gain control and take over.\
Other provisions can be thought of in a similar way, in that they can be used to either increase or hamper shareholders activism (calling special meetings, changing the firms bylaws etc). 
\b \
\
}