{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13120\viewh17120\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf0 Simplified approach to matching for casual inference that optimises both balance (between the treated and control groups) and matched sample size. \
\

\b Intro\

\b0 Matching has grown in popularity, as a statistically powerful and simple method of improving causal inference in observational data analysis. Especially simple in applied statistics when thought of as a non-parametric preprocessing step that id\'92s data subsets from which causal inferences can be drawn. \
	Successful applications of matching require both reduced imbalance (between treated and control groups), and a large matched sample. Existing matching methods optimise with respect to only one of these factors. the required joint optimisation is performed manually. \
	If the subset id\'92d is too small, you get high variance and low model dependance \
	If its very large, you get low variance and potentially high imbalance. \
They propose a 
\i matching frontier
\i0 , which fully characterises the trade-off between imbalance and the matched sample size. Allows researchers to evaluate how much balance is achieved by pruning and simultaneously trade this off against the lower variance produced by larger matched sample size. The frontier offers a matched subset of the complete data such that no other possible subset of the same size have lower imbalance.\
	So you control the matched sample size, it tells you the min(imbalance) for that size?\
\

\b Applications\

\b0 \ul Job Training\ulnone \
Match on features such as age, college degree, earnings in 1974 etc. target is earnings n 1978. \
Prune data and record trade off of imbalance and variance (don\'92t want to lose variance, want to reduce imbalance).\
As number of observations reduce due to pruning, your estimate of the answer changes. You then get a spectrum for an answer, that depends on the degree of pruning you do.\
See paper for the best explanation.\
  \
    }