{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14200\viewh15580\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Board of Directors and Firm Performance : Is there an expectations gap?\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs22 \cf0 This is Niamh Brennans paper\
\

\b Abstract\

\b0 Most prior corporate governance research attempts to find a relationship between boards of directors and firm performance, reflecting investor expectations. This paper critically examines the premise on which this research is based. An expectations hap approach is applied for the first time to implicit expectations which assume a relationship between firm performance and company boards. \
	Two elements\
	A reasonableness gap. Seven aspects of boards are id\'92d as leading to this\
	A performance gap.  Five aspects of boars are id\'92d as leading to this\
Concluding by suggesting avenues for empirically testing some of the concepts discussed in this paper.\
\

\b Intro\

\b0 There\'92s a lot a research into the link between corporate governance and company performance, to little conclusive evidence of causality. The author argues then that an investigation into whether it is reasonable to to expect to find a relationship between the two, and calls for a critical examination of the premise on which that research is based. \
	> This is highly relevant to my paper!!!!\
\
It is suggested that there is an expectations gap between what stakeholders expect and what boards of directors can reasonably contribute. This paper critiques this premise / assumption. It is posited that the lack of robust prior research findings is explained by this expectations gap. However, it is acknowledged that research design flaws also contribute to problems of prior research attempting to relate firm performance and corporate governance. \
\
\

\b The Expectations Gap\

\b0 An expectations gap is the result of differences in opinion or perceptions between two or more groups. \
	Reasonableness : Gap between what is expected and what can reasonably be expected to accomplish\
	Performance : Gap between what can reasonably be expected and perceived actual achievements.\
Think the role of auditors, who instead of stating that accounts are accurate, state that accounts are a true and fair view. \
Author then goes on to list other research in this area, often referring back to the auditor example.\
\

\b Corporate Goverance\

\b0 Corporate structure has a major disadvantage arising from the separation of capital providers (shareholders) and capital users (management). Corporate governance mechanisms have evolved that help reduce - but never completely eliminate - the costs associated with the separation of ownership and control. The board of directors is the official first line of defence against managers who would act contrary to shareholders interests. Romano (1996) describes the board of directors as the principle governance structure for shareholders in diffusely held firms.  \
\
Groups of board roles:\
	Strategy : the process by which directors shape the direction , future, vision, values of an organisation\
	Monitoring and control of managers (including the hiring and firing of the CEO) \
	Acquisition of scarce resources / providing support to the CEO \
\
\

\b The Research Question\

\b0 How to entrepreneurs, shareholders and managers minimise the loss of value that results from the separation of ownership and control?\
Much prior research assumes that the purpose of the board is shareholder maximisation. This perspective is unlikely to reflect the expectations of a wider group os shareholder and stakeholders in companies. \
Authors state that previous research focuses on a slightly different question: Does corporate governance effectiveness lead to superior corporate financial performance? Firm performance is hypothesised to be a function of firm corporate governance mechanisms. Corporate governance is usually measured by reference to board effectiveness and form performance is assume to be a function of some measure of board effectiveness proxied by some board characteristic assumed to be effective. Characteristics tested include the size of the board, the number of independent outside directors on the board etc. 
\b\fs24 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 The issue at the heart of this paper is whether all groups with interests in boards of directors have the same expectations as those implicit in the prior research discussed above. \
	That is, does everyone interested in boards have the same expectations as those implicit in the prior research discussed above.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
Reasonableness gap and company boards\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 That is expected of boards and what boards can reasonably be expected to accomplish \
Factors contributing to this gap include:\
	Lack of agreement on roles of boards\
	Some roles may negatively impact on company performance\
	The board has a limited and restricted role compared with that of managers\
	Shareholder value is not the only aspect of interest to directors\
	Directors have a limited ability to monitor and control\
\
more in depth exploration of the above\'85.\
	
\i Shareholder value not the only aspect of the firm of interest to directors
\i0 \
	> Board responsibilities many manifest more directly in other significant areas besides firm performance. Most directors are aware of their monitoring role, which includes controlling the agency conflicts between management and shareholders. However, it is not clear whether this role extends to ensuring that all management decisions are consistent with enhancing shareholder value resulting in better corporate performance. Many decisions are likely to be made by directors which are good for the company but which do not lead to increased shareholder value. Also contributing to an expectations gap is the assumption that shareholders are only interested in shareholder value and have no interest in third party effects. The growth of ethical funds suggests that such a singular view of shareholder objectives is inappropriate. \
\
	
\i Limited ability to monitor and control 
\i0 \
	> it is assumed in research that words can exercise considerable control over management. However boards are perceived to be a relatively weak monitoring device in other research. Author states that a careful analysis would show that the main method of boards exercising control is by hiring and firing a CEO which is a crude, once-off, limited ability to exercise control. \
	control vs management\
	control is the power to affect managing of a corporation, or the power to determine the broad policies guiding the firm. Subordinates may be actively engaged in decision making while those in power appear on the surface to be inactive. As long as the board has the ability to remove management, then it has control. \
	The board can be an effective disciplining mechanism, and as such can \'93raise managements game\'94\
\
	
\i Differences in risk appetites of shareholders and directors
\i0 \
	> The amount of risk exposure, or potential adverse impact from an event that an org / individual is willing to accept / retain. Many shareholders have considerable risk appetites as they have the opportunity to diversify their risks by investing in a wide range of assets. \
	Managers are more risk averse, as their interests are tied to a single company (their employer). Directors are even more so. Not only are they tied to a single company, but the renumeration derived there from is relatively modest, while their most valuable asset (their reputation) is dependant on the company not being the subject of a scandal. Rather than contributing to shareholder value, their risk averse nature may have quite a contrary effect on contributing to shareholder value. \
\
	
\i Board decisions are a result of consensus\
	
\i0 > Boards make decisions as a group, and such decisions are therefore the product of consensus. Consensus decisions may not be the best decisions for the company, due to phenomenons such as groupthink or due to single dominant individuals making all the decisions. \
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Performance gap and company boards\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 	
\i Monitoring in practice is difficult\

\i0 	> Boards vary in their ability to monitor. \
\
	
\i Firing the CEO\

\i0 	> in deciding to fire a CEO (the ultimate power of a board)  a range of CEO competencies have to be considered. At what point of incompetence does the CEO fail the test such that the board is driven to fire them? How bad do they have to be? Often boards have a bottom-line ability against which they measure (worst acceptable performance level). Also note that boards also hire the CEO, so firing them may mean they they\'92re original decision was incorrect. Many CEO\'92s get fired to make the board seem strong and in command rather than performance based, or to deflect blame. \
\
	
\i Board does not exercise day-to-day control
\i0 \
	> Management exercises day-to-day operating control, the board exercises long run policy control (this is a law thing, not just an observed phenomenon). Non-executives should not interfere in day-to-day management, limited to oversight. Thus, board are at a disadvantage to management. \
\
	
\i Information asymmetry\

\i0 	> It is possible for information to be withheld (most likely for a set period of time or similar) from the board by management, hindering their ability to make timely and effective decisions. Safe guards against this such as external auditors are not 100% fixes (they may feel closer to management than to the board).\
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Concluding Comments
\b0 \
This paper questions whether generating wealth for shareholders is the sole role of the board, although apparently the research community is reluctant to state that there is no relationship between board and company performance. \
In practice, it cannot be 100% assumed that directors just want to increase shareholder value. They often have to take a more nuanced approach, balancing value generation with long term risk and stability. \
Authors that an alternative question: Does good governance stop the destruction of shareholder value?\
Research might re-focus on the differences between failed and non-failed firms, to see if more insight can be gained from bankruptcy and company responses.\
\
\
 }