{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh15160\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 What matters in Corporate Governance\
\

\b0 They investigate the relative importance of the 24 provisions followed by the IRRC and included in another study. \
They put forward an entrenchment index, that is monotonically associated with reductions in firm valuation as well as negative abnormal returns. That index is made up of\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\fs20 Staggered boards : only a fraction of the members of the board or directors is elected each time instead of en masse\
{\listtext	\'95	}Limits to shareholder bylaw amendments\
{\listtext	\'95	}poison pills : a tactic used by a company threatened with an unwelcome takeover bid to make itself unattractive to the bidder\
{\listtext	\'95	}golden parachutes : a large payment or other financial compensation guaranteed to a company exec if they are dismissed due to a merger or takeover \
{\listtext	\'95	}supermajority requirements for mergers and charter amendments : an amendment in a companies charter that requires a large majority (somewhere between 67-90%) of shareholders to approve it \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\fs24 The other provisions are not shown to be correlated with either reduced form valuation or negative abnormal returns.\
\
\
They argue that one must look at all provisions not in isolation, but in a universe where they are not mutually independent. They consider those monitored by the IRRC for institutional investors and researchers, which amount to 24. Prior research has id\'92d a relationship between the IRRC provisions in the aggregate and firm value. one particular study showed that a broad index based on all 24 provisions that are given equal weight was negatively correlated with firm value as measured by Tobin\'92s Q as well as stockholder returns during the 90\'92s. Used widely. Authors argue that there is no a-priori reason that all 24 should be relevant. this study aims to find out which are important and which aren\'92t.   \
\
Begin with hypothesis for testing, including rational behind the 6 provisions they pick. They include in this list of proviso all those that have systematically drawn substantial opposition from institutional investors voting on precatory resolutions (non-binding, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shareholder_resolution). \
	> Is this a good idea? Assuming that the provisions most accounted with firm value are those that investors argue against\'85makes sense in that they can be assumed to be acting in their own self interest and thus have id\'92d already those provisions that would be harmful. \
They also conduct their own analysis of their consequences and conduct interviews with M&A practitioners.\
\
Of the 6, 4 set constitutional limits of shareholder voting power, which is the primary power shareholders have. That is, they limit the extent to which shareholders can impose their will on management. The other two are the most well-known measures taken in prep for a hostile offer (pp and gp). The authors assign a score from 0-6 to each company based on the given provision they have in the given year or month. They find that their index is monotonically (in this case, always decreases) and economically significantly negatively correlated with Tobin\'92s Q. Also, the provisions in the E index appear to be largely driving the correlation that the IRRC provisions in the aggregate have with Tobin\'92s Q. They find no evidence that the eighteen provisions not in the E index are negatively correlated with Tobin\'92s Q. \
	> Good that they are using Tobin\'92s Q for my study\
So a high entrenchment score is a bad thing, according to these authors. High entrenchment, low Q. Low entrenchment, high Q. Entrenchment provisions here must mean provisos that are put in place to prevent positive change or reduce shareholder voting rights. So if a firm has high entrenchment, they limit shareholder rights and do not facilitate potentially risky change. \
\
Interesting point about causality\
	> Correlation here may be caused by something else, like a tendency of managers in low-value firms to adopt entrenching provisions. That is, provisions that make it highly unlikely that they will change in the future (I\'92m resuming here that change is considered good). \
	> The authors also point out that even if you could draw the above link, it would still be possible for entrenchment to play a key role in enabling the low-Q firms to retain their low-Q status. A high entrenchment level might protect low-Q firms from being taken over for forced to make changes that would raise their Tobin\'92s Q. Such an effect, the authors argue, it why low-Q firms might wish to adopt and retain a high level of entrenchment. \
	So a firm is low-Q, they don\'92t want to either get taken over or raise their Q (?) so they adopt high entrenchment provisions. Ie they don\'92t want to take the risk? Thus, you can\'92t say entrenchment causes low-Q, since it may be the other way around. 
\b Could make this point in my lit review.
\b0  \
\
}